# Email Spam Detection

Course Code - 116P07S301<br>
Course Name - Special Topic Seminar

Email is the most used source of official communication method for business purposes. The usage of the email continuously increases despite of other methods of communications. Automated management of emails is important in the today’s context as the volume of emails grows day by day. Out of the total emails, more than 55 percent is identified as spam. This shows that these spams consume email user time and resources generating no useful output. The spammers use developed and creative methods in order to fulfil their criminal activities using spam emails, Therefore, it is vital to understand different spam email classification techniques and their mechanism. A spam-detection algorithm must find a way to filter out spam while and at the same time avoid flagging authentic messages that users want to see in their inbox. An increasing volume of unsolicited emails is bringing down the productivity dramatically. There is a need for reliable anti-spam filters to separate such messages from legitimate ones. Therefore, for Special Topic Seminar, a spam email detection system has been implemented that employs the most commonly used Machine Learning Classification algorithms. The classifiers have been trained on a dataset from the UCI Machine Learning Repository, a well-known spam/legitimate email dataset. This system has been developed as a web portal, which would consume the email a user uploads and provide the user with a decision on whether the email is a spam email of a relevant email.
